draft expectations (#10115)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/company/employee-expectations.md

---
title: Expectations for PostHog employees
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
---

## Introduction

> People who work at PostHog have come from all sorts of different backgrounds - large companies, small companies, agencies, single-founder startups. The modes of working at these places necessarily differ from each other and from PostHog. However, when you're brought on to work as an employee at PostHog, we expect you to work in some fairly specific ways. And being the transparent company that we are, we want to let you know about those expectations, because you can only meet expectations when you are aware of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People who work at PostHog have come from all sorts of different backgrounds - large companies, small companies, agencies, single-founder startups. The modes of working at these places necessarily differ from each other and from PostHog. However, when you join PostHog, we expect you to work in some fairly specific ways. And being the transparent company that we are, we want to let you know about those expectations, because you can only meet expectations when you are aware of them.
```

> Generally, our [values](https://posthog.com/handbook/values) are a great place to start, as well as our doc on [culture](https://posthog.com/handbook/company/culture). Here are a few specific ways to apply those values and cultures:

Reviewer: Relative links, eg: `/handbook/values`

> Generally, our [values](https://posthog.com/handbook/values) are a great place to start, as well as our doc on [culture](https://posthog.com/handbook/company/culture). Here are a few specific ways to apply those values and cultures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, our [values](/handbook/values) are a great place to start, as well as our doc on [culture](/handbook/company/culture). Here are a few specific ways to apply those values:
```

## Ask for help, but only after you've tried first

> If you've just joined us, there's a lot you probably don't know. That's okay! However, we _do_ expect that you try to help yourself before asking for help. Here's a framework to use as a guide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've just joined us, there's a lot you probably don't know. That's okay! However, we _do_ expect that you try to help yourself. Here's a framework to use as a guide:
```

Removed "before asking for help" because I don't want people to be _afraid_ to ask questions (like I was, where I spent hours trying to figure something out and then was embarrassed to eventually ask). In a lot of cases, it's better to just ask in #ask-max or #ask-posthog-anything because we have enough people who are willing to help out.

> - If it's an internal product

Reviewer: What's an internal product? A SaaS product we use internally?

Author: ```suggestion
- If it's one of our own products that we build and sell
```

>   - We expect you to read our docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We expect you to [read our docs](/docs)
```

>   - We expect you to search through slack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We expect you to search through GitHub or Slack
```

>   - If it's in beta, it might be buggy or missing features - definitely request/report them, but also figure out how to do your job with plan B and plan C if it won't be fixed quickly -- i think this is what we generally call grit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If it's in beta, it might be buggy or missing features - definitely request/report them, but also figure out how to do your job with plan B and plan C if it won't be fixed quickly – I think this is what we generally call grit
```

- If it's an external product
  - We expect you to read the docs

>   - If it takes you more than 10 mins to figure out then ask someone else internally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If it takes you more than 10 mins to figure it out, then ask someone internally.
```

- If it's code

>   - Spend at least an hour on trying to get yourself unstuck, but not more than 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Spend at least an hour on trying to get yourself unstuck, but not more than two hours
```

> And in all cases, take a moment explaining how you've tried to help yourself and linking to resources. That saves others valuable time searching the docs again, or typing up a suggestion to do just that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also try self-serving an answer in our [#ask-max](https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C07TQR0V16U) Slack channel. It's trained on our handbook and documentation, so it's capable of answering both questions about internal processes and procedures, as well as product-related questions.

If you don't get the context you're looking for, try [#ask-posthog-anything](https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C02E3BKC78F) where team members are willing to point you in the right direction. Take a moment explaining how you've tried to help yourself and linking to resources. That saves others valuable time searching the docs again, or typing up a suggestion to do just that.
```

## Don't expect perfection

PostHog is a startup. As solid as our stack / product / CI / dev ex is for a company of our size (super solid tbh), it might not be the extremely-well-oiled machine you had at BigCo. That's okay! If something doesn't Just Work - follow the framework above to get help. 

## Make it better

> If you run into something you found that is confusing or needs fixing, we expect you to update the docs at minimum, and if you're keen then definitely improve the experience yourself. For example, CI is _everyone's_ job. If it sucks, fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run into something you found that is confusing or needs fixing, we expect you to update the docs or handbook at minimum, and if you're keen then definitely improve the experience yourself. For example, CI is _everyone's_ job. If it sucks, fix it.
```

## Don't wait for someone else

> We expect you to be proactive about answering questions you don't know the answer to. Find the answer. Being wrong is way better than being silent - if you are wrong, someone will correct you. If you are silent, you're not doing your job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We expect you to be proactive about trying to help answer questions in your domain. Find the answer. Being wrong is way better than being silent - if you are wrong, someone will correct you. If you are silent, you're not doing your job.
```

## Have an opinion

> You definitely don't need to have opinions on everything - but you should absolutely have opinions on your area of expertise. If you don't have opinions on your area, you are realistically then just waiting for someone to tell you what to do, which is very much at odds with our atonomous way of working. Opinions can take a bit to form, and that's okay - you don't need to have them on day 1. But we expect you to start forming them rather early on, even if it's just on little things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You definitely don't need to have opinions on everything - but you should absolutely have opinions on your area of expertise. If you don't have opinions on your area, you are realistically then just waiting for someone to tell you what to do, which is very much at odds with our autonomous way of working. Opinions can take a bit to form, and that's okay - you don't need to have them on day one. But we expect you to start forming them rather early on, even if it's just on little things.
```

Generally, our [values](/handbook/values) are a great place to start, as well as our doc on [culture](/handbook/company/culture). Here are a few specific ways to apply those values:

## Ask for help, but only after you've tried first

If you've just joined us, there's a lot you probably don't know. That's okay! However, we _do_ expect that you try to help yourself. Here's a framework to use as a guide:

- If it's one of our own products that we build and sell
  - We expect you to [read our docs](/docs)
  - We expect you to search through GitHub or Slack
  - If it's in beta, it might be buggy or missing features - definitely request/report them, but also figure out how to do your job with plan B and plan C if it won't be fixed quickly -- this is what we generally call grit
- If it's an external product
  - We expect you to read the docs
  - If it takes you more than 10 mins to figure it out, then ask someone internally.
- If it's code

>   - Spend at least an hour on trying to get yourself unstuck, but not more than two hours

Reviewer 2: fly-by feedback: it may be helpful to clarify that/if this applies to non-engineers too and maybe signal some things that can help unblock them. 

I'm thinking mainly of people who are not technical and don't touch code regularly, like Lottie. If she's just staring at the code for an hour and not getting anywhere then that's arguably a waste of her time. If we're going to ask that she do that we can at least sign-post a few things to help. 

```suggestion
  - Whether you're an engineer or not, spend at least an hour on trying to get yourself unstuck, but not more than two hours
  - AI tools, such as ChatGPT, can be really helpful ways for less technical team members to get sections of code explained to them. Give them a go!
```

## Don't expect perfection

PostHog is a startup. As solid as our stack / product / CI / dev ex is for a company of our size (super solid tbh), it might not be the extremely-well-oiled machine you had at BigCo. That's okay! If something doesn't Just Work - follow the framework above to get help. 

## Make it better

If you run into something you found that is confusing or needs fixing, we expect you to update the docs or handbook at minimum, and if you're keen then definitely improve the experience yourself. For example, CI is _everyone's_ job. If it sucks, fix it.

That being said, there is often a _reason_ why things are the way they are. That reason might be "because no one wanted to fix it," but it also might be "because it broke yesterday and we're on it" or "we've carefully considered this before and decided to make it this way." We encourage you to step on toes - but don't be a bull in a china shop. Context is oftentimes your best friend - gather it up and keep it close.

## Don't wait for someone else

> We expect you to be proactive about answering questions in your domain, even very early on after you are hired (ie after the first week). Look in the code. Read the docs. Find the answer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We expect you to be proactive about answering questions in your domain, even very early on after you are hired (i.e. after the first week). Look in the code. Read the docs. Find the answer. 
```
